Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host, Ricardo Lopez, and today I'm
Jane by Doctor Anna Puzio. She's a researcher in
the ethics of socially disruptive Technologies research program at
the University of Puente. She's a philosopher, theologian, and
Ethicist and her research areas include anthropology, anthropology, and
ethics of technology and environmental ethics, and today we're
talking about topics like social robots, anthropology, religious robots,
posthumanism and transhumanism, and some other related topics. So,
Doctor Puzzio, welcome to the show. It's a huge
pleasure to everyone.
Hi, thank you.
So, just to introduce the topic and to clarify
some definitions before we start getting more specifically into
some aspects of social robots, how we respond to
them and so on. What is a social robot?
Yeah. So social robots are robots designed for social
interactions, so they are displaying social behaviors even if
we do not necessarily have to call them social.
Uh, AND so among the social robots, there are
those who are humanoid, right? I, I mean, what
counts as a humanoid robot.
Yeah. So humanoid robots are robots that have human-like
design. So they are, but there are also many
social robots that look like more like uh animals
or toys, and it often happens that we anthropomorphize
robots.
Uh, SURE, I'm going to ask you more specifically
about the issue of anthropomorphization. I mean, the issue,
I am not sure if it's always an issue
or not, but what are the issues specifically with
when we think about and relate to robots as
if they were human? And I would imagine that
this happens more when they are similar to humans,
right?
Yeah, so what concerns people is, for example, um,
whether robots can also have consciousness, whether they can
be intelligent, whether they can feel pain, or whether
they can have emotions. And our behavior towards humans
is guided by certain rules, so humans have dignity.
We must not kill or cause some suffering. We
must protect them, and humans have rights and duties
and we are now questioning how to behave towards
robots.
And is anthropomorphization uh a mistake? Is it always
problematic or are there perhaps instances where it might
not be?
Mhm. So anthropomorphizing robots means that we are thinking
of robots and treating them as if they were
humans. And research, there's a big debate whether anthropomorphizing
robots is acceptable or should be avoided. And we
do not only do the um with robots, we
also do this with animals, with gods and objects.
So um look at how we treat our dogs
or cats. And this anthropomorphizing seems to be deeply
rooted in our psychology and behavior, but the question
indeed is whether we can unlearn it, and I
think that it could be very beneficial for us
humans to sometimes train ourselves to move away from
this anthropocentric perspective that we have.
So earlier when I asked you about what might
be some of the issues with this thinking about
and relating to robots as if they were human,
you raise some issues there that if they were
true, like, for example, if robots were conscious, they
might raise some ethical or moral questions here, but
can social robots be moral patients or not?
Mhm. So more patients are entities who are subjects
of moral consideration or who matter morally. So the
question is now, do we have moral obligations and
responsibilities towards robots? And in research, again, there's a
big debate about robots' rights and more patients, and
there's a wide range of positions taken from, yes,
robots should have rights to no robots should be
treated like slaves. And yeah, to new ways also
to new ways of thinking about robots as something
different, um, that cannot be forced into our old
categories, and I particularly prefer, uh, yeah, the latter.
So, um, yeah, and the major factor in this
question is that we form close relationships with robots.
So people fall in love with robots. There are
funerals for robots, and it doesn't feel right to
us when robots are harmed.
But, uh, I mean, of course, I would imagine
that there are people with different opinions when it
comes to this matter and they would consider different
criteria when it comes to us, uh, considering social
robots as moral patients or treating them as such.
But what are perhaps some of the main Criteria
that people point to. I mean, I mean, in
terms of perhaps some of the traits that they
would need to have, particularly psychological traits for them
to be considered moral patients, or does it have
perhaps something to do with just how we relate
to them. Since you mentioned there that certain people
can fall in love with them or might think
of them as having some sort of relationship, not
necessarily romantic with them, but other kind, another kind
of social relationship. I mean, what are basically the
criteria that people usually point to?
Yeah, so there's a like a big catalog of
different criteria, and people often prefer like um this
criterion of consciousness, for example, there is the robot
conscious or not, um, intelligence, emotions, um, then also
different behaviors or capacities, abilities, and, um, yeah, like
I mentioned, the, the relationship we can have with
those entities because there's also this big argument that
um No matter whether they have consciousness or intelligence,
emotions, etc. BECAUSE it's also very difficult to identify
um these criteria also in other human and non-human
beings. We say that, yeah, but in our everyday
actions, um we still um have like this deep
relationships with those entities and um. Yeah, I like
to compare this, the debate that we have um
to um in the robotic context with the debate
that we have in environmental ethics, so our relationship
towards animals and um this debate is even longer,
so how to um whether um Whether animals are
sentient beings and what is an animal or what
is uh what is not alive or whether um
they are intelligent, whether they have emotions center. So
my, my key thesis is that um with those
kind of new relationships and those new um technologies,
um, our old ethical concepts are transformed or disrupted,
and we need new criteria or new ways or
new perspectives.
It's interesting that you establish there are parallel with
animal or environmental ethics because actually, some of these
questions when it comes to the criteria for someone
or something to be considered a moral patient, are
really hard to determine, right? Because we could say
that, oh, I mean, it's perhaps silly for us
to try to really figure out if a particular
robot. Or artificial artificial intelligence system is conscious or
not because we can never be certain of that.
But the same could be said about uh non-human
animals and even other humans,
right? Yeah, indeed, yeah. So this is something that
also um Um, it is argued by, for example,
David Ganko and Mark Huuckerberg, so they show this,
um, this criticism of the properties approach. So it's
difficult to identify those properties, to have to define
those properties, and it's always difficult even in human
beings and um yeah. We have to reflect on
how our behavior and social interactions really function in
our everyday life and not what philosophers like to
think about. So because as philosophers, we like to
think about the metaphysical questions and oh, will there
be super intelligence and conscious AI and Everything but
uh does it really matter in our everyday life.
Yeah, maybe at the end of the day, people
will just decide to treat robots one way or
the other depending on how much they resemble humans
or at least resemble beings that are deserving of
moral consideration. Mhm. So, um, let me ask you
another kind of question, and this is uh uh
related to another aspect of your research. In what
ways does technological change affect or might affect understandings
of human beings and their bodies?
Yes, so with technology, we can now almost completely
change the human body every part, and we can
modify various parts of the human, uh, with this
particular medicine or pharmaceutica, or we can implement technology
into the body. And this raises the fascinating question
of where the boundary between technology and the body
lies. So can we understand technology as part of
the human body? For example, if technology is implemented
in the body from an early age or um
yeah, becomes part of us and we need it
to survive. And additionally, we have um many self
tracking systems like smart watches or we have medical
technologies that collect a lot of data about us,
and they're with um they're creating a specific image
of us and our bodies. So we only um
collect certain data and not others, and this changes
how we understand ourselves.
Uh, THAT is sort of related to that idea
that some people nowadays talk about of the quantified
uh self, for example, right, because we now have
access to Uh, if we want, of course, uh,
data from several different, uh, aspects of, for example,
our physiology or even our own personality, like, for
example, in terms of how we behave online and
stuff like that. So it's sort of related to
that kind of idea, right?
Yeah, yeah, sure.
And and talking about how we behave online, you've
also done some work on digital identity. So what
is a digital identity?
Yes, so what's fascinating about this is that our
identity um is kind of extended by digital and
social media or maybe not extended but also transformed.
So in the digital realm, we now have entirely
new possibilities to construct identity. And at the same
time, what happens in the digital world always affects
our identity and our physical bodies. So in fact,
there isn't a digital wheel or a digital world,
and there's not, there's no separation between the identity
that we have in the non-digital world and the
identity. That we have in the digital world, they
are always interconnected because everything that happens on social
media, um, with VR or augmented reality, we, we
need our body for this and it affects our
body and our identity. So for example, um, also
harm. Um, IF something happens to me online, um,
some kind of mistreatment, then it's also harm to
my physical uh body or my identity also in
the, in the non-digital sphere.
And does this point to any form of posthumanism
since in your own words, you said that, uh,
I mean, as having digital identities points to an
extended or a transformed identity that we have online,
should we consider that some form of posthumanism or
not?
Yeah, so I distinguish between the developments, um, so
I strictly, uh, uh, differentiate them. So the developments
that we have in the digital realm, social media,
um, And our optimization enhancement in our society today
and then um transhumanism, transhumanist goals or posthumanism because
transhumanism for me is a movement with its own
institutions, organization, and agenda and the normal efforts for
optimization that we have in our society today, they
still differ from what transhumanism aims to achieve.
Uh, BUT then posthumanism is a synonym of transhumanism
or are they slightly different?
And they are slightly different, so it's uh difficult
to, to strictly separate them, so, um. I, um,
I built on the research from, from Yanina Lu,
and, um, so the difference would be then that
transhumanism wants to transform the human being, so like
the trans um and posthumanism, the past, um, wants
to have, um, yeah, wants to overcome the human
beings, so they rather want to have this artificial
superintelligence rather than the human being, but it's um
difficult to separate them.
And of course, all of these possibly as implications
for, uh, anthropology. I mean, the study of humans,
because since we introduced these new kinds of technologies
and that are also evolving and progressing, they will.
Transform me to even more complex kinds of technologies
and also the way we relate to them. So
do you think that this might also have implications
for anthropology and how anthropologists study humans in this
sort of new environment?
Yes, of course. So anthropology uh changes with new
technologies. So when new technological inventions emerge, we examine
and use them. And then we ask ourselves what
it means to be human. So for example, with
robots, we ask what distinguishes robots from humans and
what will distinguish them in the future. And um
this leads us to reconsider what emotions, consciousness, intelligence
are. So technology always changes how we understand ourselves
and we can, we can already see this in
history with the invention of the clock, for example,
then people ask, oh, OK, what's the human body,
and then we compare the the uh the human
body to the clock, and the same was then
with the computer because we have different computer models
of the brain also or the. Um, THE mind
and, um, so that's we, so human beings and
technology are very, uh, much connected.
So it's not only the ways by which we
theorize about uh humanity because as you mentioned, there
are perhaps different kinds of technologies, influences in thinking
about, for example, the human. Mind or the human
brain in particular ways like a computer, for example,
something like that. But, uh, uh, but it's also
about how these kinds, these new kinds of technologies
might affect, uh, our, let's say, reality as human
beings. I mean, it can. Uh, AFFECT directly, even
phenomenologically, let's say how we think about ourselves and
how we relate to one another as human beings,
right.
Yes, yes, and we can see this with medical
technologies. They are implemented into our body or influencing
medical decisions, our health, um, yeah, and also, um,
yeah, it's, it's like this, uh, they, it's the
connection between technology and um And uh human beings,
it's, it's so close because they are shaping us
and we are um giving data for them, so
they are having our data and then they, yeah,
so we are both we are shaping us constantly,
yeah.
So, you're also a theologian and you've written actually
about religious robots. So what is this idea of
a religious robot? What is a religious robot?
Yeah, so the question of whether robots can be
religious is a difficult one. So because we first
must ask um how can we identify whether someone
is religious. For example, can animals be religious? And
what about humans who lack certain capabilities? So I
think that in the context of robotics, the questions
are not highly relevant to ethics, but rather fascinates
us. So again, And therefore I focus more on
the question whether robots can perform religious practices.
Uh, AND can they perform religious practices? I, I
mean, what does that mean
exactly
to perform a religious practice?
Yes, so religious robots can accompany prayers. They can
lead to religious ceremonies, create or generate or read
religious texts and music, and then can provide um
guiding tours of religious uh buildings. Yeah, and whether
they um Should have religious functions is a really
good question. So there are many social robots for
hospitals, for care and for education, and they achieve
great results in these areas. So for example, in
therapy, autism, um, motivation and education, creativity. And they
can sometimes do things that humans cannot, and I
wonder if we use social robots in these fields,
should they also perform religious practices, or should they
remain agnostic atheistic. So I would argue that they
should also have religious functions or perform religious practices,
especially in the hospital context, um, you have so
spiritual needs and existential questions arise there. So I
think it would be, yeah, a good opportunity to
also have like this religious functions and these robots.
Could there also be somewhere in the future, a
priest robots or is that too much?
It could be, um, I prefer to, to change
current structures because, um, for example, um, I'm a
Catholic theologian and in Christianity we um question a
lot of structures that we now have. For example,
this um high authority or um hierarchy or for
example, gender because only. Uh, MALE, um, persons can
be, um, priests, so it would be better to
not um replace human, human relationships with robots, but
to, to use them for, um, in what they
can do best, so extend our relationships and to
use them for better things. So for example, it
would be great if we could use them to
um To increase the interaction in the religious community
and to not um just simulate this hierarchy again,
but to um yeah, to, to promote this community
that we have.
Do you think that this idea of religious robots
and this issue could raise questions as to whether
robots could actually believe in something religious and if,
uh, I, I mean, and is that a question
that We would even need to be answered because
even talking about humans, for example, the, is it
really necessary for someone, like, for example, a priest
to actually believe in what they're preaching to be,
uh, a priest or not, I mean, I'm not
sure if you understand the question or.
Yeah, um, um, I could have, um, yeah, maybe
two possible answers to this. Um, FIRST, it's important
what kind of teaching, um, they have implemented because,
um, so it would be not good if they
would just be used for fundamentalism or just to
promote the one theological position of the church. Um,
BECAUSE there's also this diversity of practiced faith, and
so many religious practices, and they're still neglected by
the church that they, and they are also valid
and, of course, right? So, um, this kind of
robots, um, should have, um, like this um. Some
interaction modules and some flexibility and dynamic understanding and
I think that we wouldn't need a robot who's
um that says to us what we should do,
but rather that increases our autonomy, our needs and
our thinking, so like more or less sparing partner
or something and not uh a new boss.
Yeah, but when it comes to the more, let's
say, side related to religious beliefs, the more doxastic
side, I guess. Uh, I, I mean, if we,
um, discovered that robots could also Themselves and hold
religious beliefs. Do you think that would also tell
us something about our own religious beliefs as humans
and how they work, uh, cognitively speaking or not?
I'm not sure about this. I, I have to
think about this. I, but I agree that um.
You know, there's the same like how we are
now with emotional artificial intelligence, we are exploring how
emotions work and um so this could also be
a chance to um I'm skeptical whether they could
be religious, but um I, we could just, um,
yeah, we could reflect what religious experiences are.
But on the more, let's say ethical side of
things, what kinds of ethical questions uh can uh
the idea of robots serving religious functions or raise?
I mean, what, what considerations do people make here?
Mhm. Yeah, so this whole topic of religious robots
is still really new. And um that's why recently
at the Catolientag an airport in Germany, so this
is a big church event, um, last week, I
conducted a study, um, to find out whether religious
people want religious robots, and if so, what they
should be like, because, um, I don't think that,
um, philosophers or theologians or the church alone should
decide whether we need them and how to design
them. Um, BECAUSE also philosophers like to think about
some fancy problems that uh don't matter for for
other people sometimes. And, um, yeah, I found it
really fascinating how open um people were to robots,
and they were very interested and forward thinking and
had um really great suggestions, um. So for example,
that robots could um provide many ideas for religions
and um for religions and churches, so generate text
or they could answer some questions about religions in
an entertaining way because I also saw it um
in my workshop that People were so interested in
religious robots, they um always had their, I, I
brought a a small N robot, so the um
social robot now with me, and they just uh
did make so many photos with this now robots,
so they were like uh very entertained by it.
And um yeah, also they thought about promoting community
and interaction so they don't want to have this
religious hierarchy um established. And other topics were, were
like um gender, data protection and manipulation um were
also very important. I also had a child in
one of these workshops who was also very interested
in how this um robot works because I, what
I tried, um, is that now also imitates like
um a monkey or a mouse or these animations
that are in, in the now robot and um
people found it very funny and The children wanted
to have them also in their um religious education
to show them how to to knee or to
pray or um yeah.
Yeah, no, I, I was just thinking that particularly
in Catholicism, since people have confessions, uh, I was
wondering in terms of data privacy if there was
a robot there, uh, acting as a confessor. Uh,
I mean, of course, that those kinds of data
would have to be made private, right?
Yeah, yeah, of course. So, um, also with the
relationship, uh, the problematic relationship between church, um, with
the church now, um, it's very necessary that this
would be completely anonymous and that, um, church or
the state wouldn't have any access to the data
and those kinds of robots. Yeah, that's, yeah, that's
why data protection is so important, yeah. Mm.
So, let me ask you about one last topic,
then we've already touched on it earlier when we
talked about posthumanism, transhumanism, but transhumanism specifically, what kinds
of ethical questions does it raise? Uh AND by
the way, uh, even before that question, what different
kinds of transhumanism are there?
Yeah, so, um, transhumanism is a philosophical technological movement
of the late 20s or 21st centuries, um, primarily
in the UK and the US, and transhumanism wants
to transform human through new tech. AND visions of
transhumanism are, for example, um enhancement technologies, cryonics, so
freezing the human body, radical life extension from several
100 years up to uh immortality. Or infinite life
spans and then the elimination of suffering and diseases
and posthumanism like we mentioned before, is rather they
um they want to overcome the human being and
to have this um artificial intelligence, um. And what
kinds of ethical question arise? Um, SO in my
research, I've primarily um examined the argumentativeative structures of
transhumanism. And I noticed um that the way transhumanism
argues, um it's ideas, they do not make sense.
So um they employ manipulative augmentative, augmentation structures, they
pretend to rely on natural sciences, for example, but
actually they are contradicting scientific knowledge. For example, um
transhumanism argues that they are good genes and bad
genes in the human being and that we can
simply cut out the bad ones and then we
have to improved human being and no, um, yeah.
No one from science would agree with this. And
um yeah, I have also looked at the goals
of transhumanism, so it's um it aims to overcome
contingency and vulnerability. It focuses a lot on controlling
the human body, also reproduction, for example, it's always
controlling our bodies. And transhumanism seeks to improve human
beings. Which initially sounds um attractive and unproblematic for
us, but um the improvements um are always based
on what transhumanism considers desirable and worth improving. So
you can see that for example transhumanism and discriminates
against women or people with disabilities and generally um
Aging, um. Ill individuals, yeah.
So do you think that the genetics part that
you mentioned there related to how they classify perhaps
certain genes as good and others bad. And I
mean, this is actually something that I've talked on
the show with particularly geneticists and biologists and it
doesn't make much sense. At least in 99% of
the cases to talk about good genes or bad
genes. So that's already problematic. But do you think
that perhaps certain branches of transhumanism where people are
interested in genetics might also connect at least in
some ways to eugenics?
Um, YEAH, it's connected with eugenics, um, of course,
because of the discrimination of, um, people with disability,
so there is this, uh, very close connection, I
think. Um, YEAH, and they're talking about good genes
and bad genes, so there's, um, a lot of
research in genetics about what a gene is and
that our understanding of a, a gene as a
physical ontological entity is already wrong and then Um,
with bad genes and good genes or healthy genes
or old genes, um, this is then a topic
of, uh, ethics, of course, because they're, uh, moralizing
genes or, um, they are, um, yeah, so there
are normative implications and we cannot, um, even if
they were traits that were just inscribed in an
ontological entity, we couldn't just discuss whether they are
good or bad or because it's way too complex
to. To do this this way, um.
So another interesting aspect here and that you pointed
to earlier is that by talking, by using terms
like good, bad, for example, good genes, bad genes
or good traits, bad traits and so on, or
better traits, for example. They are already applying language
that is non-scientific, right, even though some of them
present themselves as being a scientists or science enthusiasts
and they say that whatever they are proposing is
just science or objective or something like that.
Yeah, I think that a big problem with transhumanism
is also um. That their ideas are so fascinating
and they are connected also with the AI hype
and how media um discuss transhumanism, they are also,
um, yeah, they're scared. Of transhumanism or they are
very, um, also enthusiastic about transhumanism, but, um, people
don't look into the text of transhumanism, and I
think that maybe you don't need a philosophical background
to just read one of those texts and to
understand that what they are proposing is, uh, manipulative
and scientific, not scientifically not correct. So, um, Yeah,
I think that this is a big problem that
we don't uh scientifically engage with um those kind
of movements and that they are so powerful because
also, because of the AI developments.
So do you think that looking at transhumanism in
general, perhaps it has more negative than positive aspects
to it,
or? Yeah, yeah, I think I, um, so in
my book, I describe tech um transhumanism also as
an ideology and um yeah, I see they're very
dangerous um structures because um Like we mentioned in
our um talk now, there are so many questions
people now have, so anthropological questions, what is a
human being, um, what diff um what is the
difference now between us and robots and AI and
what will the future look like, and we, we
have this need for orientation in society. We need
answers and we need good explanations and If then
transhumanism comes and produces this fear or this euphoria,
this is um this is not the way that
we need in this uh AI discourse.
So let me ask you then one last uh
question or one about one last topic. So earlier
we talked about digi digital identities. What are some
of the ethical implications of digital afterlives because we've
already, we, we're already seeing. Uh, I mean, not
necessarily, perhaps a digital afterlife, but some people who
die and they have social media and they were
on other places on throughout the internet. And so
they leave, for example, I don't know, Facebook or
Twitter behind and they might have, uh, and, and
after. A digital afterlife, uh, or, or not, but,
uh, what are some of the ethical implications of
that?
Maybe first, um, there's also this connection between transhumanism
and digital afterlife, uh, in the vision of mind
uploading. So this is the vision, um, so they
believe that we can upload our brains and continue
to exist on A hard drive or a computer.
And as I already mentioned, I'm a bit skeptical
about their, their visions because, um, yeah, this overlaps
the unity, the connection of the brain with the
entire organism, with relationships, environment, and we cannot just
not, we are not just our brains, um, and
the brain cannot just exist independently. But there's also
this, um, second area that you're mentioning, um, That's
called death technology. So all the kinds of technologies
are related to the topic of death. And um
so it's possible to to um create avatars of
ourselves that continue to live after we are dead.
And um these avatars, they look like us, they
speak like us, they can communicate with um with
our dearest ones, even though we have long passed
already passed away. Yeah. And this is already possible
today. And of course this has great opportunities but
also ethical challenges such as um for example, consent.
So um did the deceased people want um the
data to be used in this way after their
death? Um, OF course, it's already a topic today
because, um, we also have like VIPs and important,
um, um, people in publicity and we use their
data or material from them uh already. Yes. Um.
Then there are questions of manipulation, especially if young
children use these avatars. Um, SO for example, Amazon,
I think, um, advertised, um, one or two years
ago that they want to have Alexa reading, um,
grandchildren, um. They want to have an Alexa that's
uh that has the voice of a grandmother that
reads the text to their grandchildren, even if the
grandmother passed away. So this could be manipulative because
um children don't understand that uh this grandmother passed
away and it's not reading the text to them.
And um a big question is that of um
well-being and um psychological functions. So does um death
tech or um do these technologies help us in
the grieving process or do they hinder? Uh, SO
I think that we have to explore ways um
where we can, yeah, use them, where they benefit
us, and maybe there's some functions task um where
we don't need them and it's uh maybe too
um too problematic to use them.
Uh, BUT what specific kinds of technologies like that
do we already have available or are in the
process of developing? I mean, I mean, do, because
I, I don't know much about it. Is it
like a chatbots or perhaps even robots themselves that
are fed uh information, I don't know, like messages
or something like that, uh, written by the diseased
person and then it sort of reproduces their kinds
of speech patterns or some of their behaviors, what
do we have available.
Yeah. So what we already have is chatbot, so
this was also a big debate with LGBT in
the beginning. So, um, some years ago that um
it was possible to have this uh large language
models uh personalized and to um To have them
like uh to create chatbots like a deceased person.
It's also possible now with um all the image
material that we have to have an avatar that
really looks like you and behaves like you and
that um for example, I would Records uh for
my, for my dad, um, I would record some
questions, um give some answers to some questions, and
then my family could ask um when I, when
I'm dead, um, some questions to me that I
would just, uh, reply to. It's a bit spooky,
um, yeah, and, um, I think that the next
step um to transfer this to robots isn't actually
a big step then because so from an ethical
perspective, yes, but from a technological perspective, it's already
possible to have JGBT and this LLMs and to
um to transfer this, uh, connect them with robots.
So it's not difficult to, to connect those chatbots
also to, to robots as well.
When it comes, uh, because at a certain point
you mentioned there, people question if, uh, I mean,
as dealing with the death of loved ones in
this particular way by not letting them just. I
mean, die and for us to just normally mourn
their death, but actually turning or sort of turning
them into chatbots or robots. Uh, I, I mean,
that, that's, that might be problematic, right? Because it
might disrupt our normal process of mourning and being
able to move on and to accept that the
person is not there anymore and will not be,
right. Mm. Of course, it can complicate our grieving
process, but of course can also help our grieving
process. For example, if um if your grandmother dies
in a country very far away and you did
not have the chance to say goodbye, then this
kind of of attire maybe just for two weeks
or a day or for one message could be
a great opportunity to say goodbye. Also, um, the
breathing process is, yeah, highly subjective psychological, um, Um,
difficult, so it's a highly complex to understand it,
but it's, um, it also depends on the individual
and um sometimes it's easier to um to have
some conversations with the chatbot or to open up
or to just repeat again, again, um, the same
things then um then to, to do this with
the human being.
Yeah. So uh would you like to tell people
just before we go where they can find you
and your work on the internet?
Yes, so I have a personal homepage, Anna, um,
yeah, Annaucio.com, and yeah, you can find on this
homepage some material, but you can also find me
on social media like Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, and my
university homepage. So, yeah.
So, thank you so much for doing this, doctor
Puzzio. It was a fascinating conversation.
Thank you, thank you. It was a pleasure to
talk to you. Thank you.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Nights Learning and
Development done differently, check their website at Nights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Mullerns, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyches Olaf,
Alex Adam Castle, Matthew Whitting Barno, Wolf, Tim Hollis,
Erika Lenny, John Connors, Philip Fors Connolly. Then the
Mari Robert Windegaruyasi Zup Mark Nes called in Holbrookfield
governor Michael Stormir, Samuel Andre Francis Forti Agnseroro and
Hal Herzognun Macha Joan Labray and Samuel Corriere, Heinz,
Mark Smith, Jore, Tom Hummel, Sardus France David Sloan
Wilson, asilla dearauurumen Roach Diego London Correa. Yannick Punter
Darusmani Charlotte blinikol Barbara Adamhn Pavlostaevsky nale back medicine,
Gary Galman Sam of Zallirianeioltonin John Barboza, Julian Price,
Edward Hall Edin Bronner, Douglas Fre Franca Bartolotti Gabrielon
Scorteseus Slelitsky, Scott Zachary Fish Tim Duffyani Smith John
Wieman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georgianneau, Luke Lovai
Giorgio Theophanous, Chris Williamson, Peter Wozin, David Williams, Diocosta,
Anton Eriksson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralli
Chevalier, bungalow atheists, Larry D. Lee Junior, old Erringbo.
Sterry Michael Bailey, then Sperber, Robert Grassy, Zigoren, Jeff
McMann, Jake Zu, Barnabas radix, Mark Campbell, Thomas Dovner,
Luke Neeson, Chris Storry, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert, Jessica
Nowicki, Linda Brandon, Nicholas Carlsson, Ismael Bensleyman. George Eoriatis,
Valentin Steinman, Perrolis, Kate van Goller, Alexander Aubert, Liam
Dunaway, BR Masoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular John Nertner, Ursula
Gudinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsoff, Sean Nelson, Mike Levin,
and Jos Net. A special thanks to my producers.
These are Webb, Jim, Frank Lucas Steffinik, Tom Venneden,
Bernardin Curtis Dixon, Benedic Muller, Thomas Trumbull, Catherine and
Patrick Tobin, Gian Carlo Montenegroal Ni Cortiz and Nick
Golden, and to my executive producers Matthew Levender, Sergio
Quadrian, Bogdan Kanivets, and Rosie. Thank you for all.